This is an English translation of the document at
https://wwwcip.cs.fau.de/~snsehahn/Tor-Fragen.txt , which should be
considered the canonical source. I thank the translators and ask them to
contact me if they want to be personally credited.

This file documents some frequently asked questions, which got asked in
relation with the surveillance of my Tor server. The version history of
this file can be found at https://github.com/shahn/wwwcip

First of all: I am truly surprised that not a single journalist who has
contacted me, has by him self protected his identity or the integrity of
his communication. I strongly ask you to consider the usage of
electronic signatures and encryption technologies. Those technologies
should be essential for your daily work.

UPDATE: In the meantime, the first signed/encrypted emails arrived,
nice!

Q:
How old are you, what do you study, which career goals do you have?

A:
I am 27 years old and I study Computer Science. I'd like to keep my
goals and further wishes to myself.

Q:
If every person using or interested in Tor is tagged as being
suspicious, why should you still use Tor? Can you explain to my readers
why it makes sense not to be intimidated by these new disclosures?

A:
The data I was able to look at shows how extensive the data collection
is. You can't escape surveillance by XKeyscore or related software by
not using Tor - on the contrary, instead of the information "Mr Smith
currently uses Tor" and "Some Tor user currently watches a video on
Youtube", an intelligence agency directly receives the information "Mr
Smith currently watches a video on Youtube".

Every Tor user is sending a strong signal that he/she cares about
democracy and about the monitoring of all communication which is getting
out of hand.  I can only encourage to take a stand for a free society.

Q:
I run a Tor-server. Am I subject of surveillance?

A:
Everybody is affected. Evidence, that the relays of all supporters of
Tor are monitored by XKeyscore, has not come to my knowledge - the
central Tor Directory Authorities seem to be a special case.

Q:
You are, other than Chancellor Angela Merkel, the German, who is known
by name to be subject of the surveillance. How does that feel?

A:
It is a different level of surveillance, thus I dislike this comparison.
Every German citizen is subject of surveillance on a daily basis,
without anyone mentioning it. My personal case might be good for
headlines; the whole dimension and the missing protection measures,
especially for less technical experienced people is the real scandal. I
am shocked how easily innocent people can get into the focus of
surveillance. Intelligence agency take that for granted.

Without playing down the spying on my server, I want to note, that I
could not find traces of further surveillance. The documents made
accessible to me, contain no evidence that, for example, my laptop,
would be target of special surveillance. Though I can not say for sure,
if other parts of the huge XKeyscore program, could contain such
evidence.

Q:
I'd like to support your work

A:
I don't want to take any profit from being surveilled. If you want to
help, you can support the Tor Project, run your own server and talk to
your peers about data security and data privacy. Let this topic stay
alive for more than one day or a couple of weeks.

Q:
Did you expect the NSA to be interested in your personal data?

A:
After the leaks published by Edward Snowden, it was predictable that
secret agencies would be interested in the work of networks which enable
online anonymity - at least, that's what the published documents said.
It could not have been foreseen that it would go as far as surveilling
such servers, no matter if they aroused further suspicion or not.

Q:
What are your personal consequences from being targeted by the NSA?

A:
I feel vindicated in my way. Only concrete actions can help us defend
our democracy; democracy needs privacy and security in every means of
communication.

